>> Scott Moss: We left off right before
we're gonna talk about resolvers,
which are the meat and
potatoes of GraphQL,
is just schemas are one side that
defines the type safe contract.
But resolvers are the code that
satisfies the contract and
actually tries to get the data.
So what happened to our notes here and
we'll talk about some resolvers.
So, resolvers are functions that basically
generate a response for graphical queries.
You can think of these as, if you're
making a traditional rest server,
you have your routes, and
then you have your controllers, right?
These controllers talk to your
database and then they return data.
That's kind of what resolvers are,
but they're not,
because you only have one route,
you only have slash GraphQL.
And it's always a post request, you
don't have, a controller for each route.
There's only one route.
So a resolver is typically,
gonna be for every single at least for
every single object type you have.
And every single query mutation you have,
but it could also be for
every single field you have.
We'll talk about that in a little bit.
You didn't get down to the field
level with the resolvers.
But basically, you cannot create
a GraphQL schema without resolvers.
The reason ours has worked so far, is
because we used that mock schema function
that created the resolvers for us,
that's actually what it's doing.
It's looking at the schema and dynamically
generating resolvers on the fly.
I know that because I literally had to do
that for the last startup that I created,
it was quite difficult.
But let's talk about
the structure of a resolver.
Again, it's just a function, and the
function names map directly to the things
that they want to resolve, one for one.
So in this case I have a resolver object.
You can see here, I'm saying, hey,
I want to create a resolver for
the user query on the query type.
So I used query the same way you
put it in your schema with a Q,
and I can say that query has
a field on it called user.
And this is the function that runs
when someone asks for the user query,
this is the function, okay?
You get four arguments.
The first argument is the optional
parent of this current resolver.
That might not make sense right now,
but we'll talk about
why that's important when we get to
nested data and things like that.
So that's optional,
it most likely will be no.
If you are running a top level query
in this case, like user on a query,
this is always going to be no.
There's no parent there cuz this
is running on the root, args.
These are the arguments that this,
if on your schema, let's go to our schema.
If your schema is taking arguments,
that's what the args object would be.
So in the case of search,
the args argument in that resolver will be
an object that has an input property
whose type is this type, right?
So this would be an object that has
an input property whose type was the type
that I showed you.
That's what args is, it's any arguments
that in this case query might have.
If there aren't any, this thing is known.
Context is exactly what it sounds like.
It's basically an object that you can
create at the initialization of your
GraphQL server and
it gets passed as a third argument to
every single resolver that you have.
So the common pattern for context is to
pass things like the current signed in
user, maybe your ORM versus importing
your ORM in the resolver file and
using it directly,
maybe you pass it as context.
So when you go and mock this or
test this, you can mock out that ORM for
something else that you want, versus just
pulling it into a closure and using it.
So, it's just a place in which you can
pass state that gets reused for every
single resolver and that gets initialized
at the beginning of the server.
Info is something you'll probably almost
never use unless you're doing like
metadata based things
analytics type stuff.
Info is basically information on
the actual query that was sent up.
So if you want to see the raw
query that actually was sent up,
the abstract syntax tree, like low-level
GraphQL stuff, that's what info is for.
You'll almost never use this unless
you're doing like tooling or
some dynamic metaprogramming.
But for just like resolving data,
you'll almost never use this.
For the most part, you're just gonna be
looking at args, if you have arguments,
context, if you're taking advantage
of because you don't have to,
you literally never have to
use it if you don't want to.
And then you'll look at parents,
if this is a nested resolver, and
we'll talk about nested
resolvers in a minute.
Other than that, you can do whatever
the hell you want in this argument.
I'm sorry, in this function it's,
there's no limit what you can do.
You can return a promise,
you can return an array of promises.
Those things will get resolved,
it's pretty much whatever you want.
So this is where you can imagine if you
were using like some third party provider
for authentication.
Let's say, using like clerk or
something and you wanted to get the user,
you would make a call to clerk, go get
the user by this arg ID and come back.
It doesn't matter if it comes
from your database or not,
it can come from anywhere.
In this example,
I'm using something called data sources.
So, when I created the server, I made an
object on the context called data sources.
And it's all the sources that my resolvers
have access to and I can do that.
So this is a common pattern that people
use in GraphQL is like, cuz you can have
many data sources that you probably just
wanna add them to your context object.
And so you can bring them in and
use them here.
We probably won't be doing
that in this course,
I'll just be importing it from the top,
cuz we only have one data source.
It's our database.
So I'm just gonna import it because
if I do it with the context,
unless I do the type script correctly,
I'll lose the TypeScript findings.
So I won't get the auto
complete on the database, or
unless I create another type which
doesn't take that long, I'm just lazy.
So we'll just be importing the database
from the top of the file and
using it versus passing
it through context.
But you can put whatever you want,
we will use context for other things.
So, let's make some resolvers,
let's go back to our app.
Just to, I'm just telling you right now,
just go ahead and
delete everything you have in
this schema that we created.
Cuz if you don't, you're gonna have to
make a resolver for everything in here.
So just delete everything in there, make a
quick query, I was gonna make a Query for
me, and I'm gonna say it returns
a type string, not null.
That's a minimum query,
I'm just gonna say type query me, okay?
Very, very, very, very simple
>> Scott Moss: And
now, what we wanna do is if we
go to the route.ts where we have
the schema here and
we have addMockstoSchema, and
we makeExecutableSchema,
we can get rid of that whole field.
Just get rid of this whole field,
everything that I have highlighted here,
we're just gonna get rid of.
So we'll get rid of schema, and instead,
we're gonna put something called typeDefs.
These are stored for type definitions,
which is basically our schema.
And then we're gonna put resolvers,
which is already imported
at the top of your file.
So we got typeDefs, we got resolvers,
and then we have these plugins.
>> Scott Moss: So,
if you go look at the imports,
type definitions is
literally our schema string.
Resolvers is, if you go look at that, it's
an empty object, it has nothing on it.
So I'm gonna save this, or I'm sorry,
I'm gonna go back and save this, and
you should not be able
to start your server.
You're most likely gonna get a error.
All right, let me see, okay,
I see why it's not an object type.
Yeah, so the reason I thought it was gonna
throw an error is because if you don't
specifically have the resolver for
the thing that's in your schema,
it'll say, hey,
I don't see a resolver for this thing.
So therefore, I cannot start, so
it typically would break, but
I think it's because it's a scalar type.
It doesn't matter, but
either way, running it,
you yield no result because we
didn't actually make a resolver.
So let's make a resolver for
the query of me and resolve the data.
So if we go back to our resolvers,
what I'm gonna do is inside this object,
I'm gonna say,
Query, it's only query, type here, right?
So I'm gonna say query,
I'm gonna say me because on the schema,
it's called me, that's the field.
And then I'm gonna create a resolver.
For now I'm just gonna return me,
I need to return the same type that
the schema says this type should be.
In this case, it's a non-null string.
So I can't return a number,
I can't return an object.
I have to return a string,
so that's what I'm gonna do.
>> Scott Moss: So I go here,
I run this again, I now get me.
>> Scott Moss: And
that is a resolver at its most basic,
is literally creating,
looking at your schema.
And creating functions that map exactly to
how they're creating your schema, right?
By default, GraphQL will create automatic
resolvers for you for every single field,
if you return an object,
we'll talk about that in a little bit.
So you don't have to make a resolver for
every single field on an object type,
if you return an entire object.
Let's say, let me give you an example,
let's make an object type here.
So if I say, type person, right,
and I say the person has a name,
it's a string, person has ID,
it's an ID, right?
And then I'm gonna make
something called people,
it returns an array of person,
non-null, non-null, right?
Let's say I do this, let's refresh this.
That still works, so then now,
I'm gonna make a resolver for this.
So if I go into resolvers,
I'm just gonna make one for people,
still inside of query here.
And then It's got to be a resolver.
It's gonna return an array, and it's gonna
return an object with a name and an ID.
So let's just do that, name of Sam,
and ID of whatever, all right?
So I'm gonna return that for people.
Now if I go back and I say cool,
give me people, give me ID,
give me name, and
I run this, I get that back.
But I didn't write a resolver for ID and
I did not write a resolver for name.
I only wrote a resolver for
people or a person in this case.
>> Scott Moss: GraphQL was smart enough
to resolve each field because I returned
an object that had the same
field names on it.
The object that I returned in
my resolver were name and ID,
those happen to be the exact same
name as the fields on person.
So it just went ahead and automatically
resolve those for me, it's like, that's
the same name, therefore that must be
the name field that must be the ID field.
If I change the names, right?
If I say, if I'm typo
that
>> Scott Moss: Name
is null because it didn't resolve that
field ,it didn't know what to do right?
So the other side of that is,
let's say, I don't put a name here.
I only return an ID, right?
Cuz I want to do something
different with the name.
So, what I'll do is, I can go up here and
I can say, hey, for
a person for a person type,
this is how you resolve
the name field like this.
So this is how I can say, for the name
field of a person run this function.
And then now I can use
that first argument.
This will be the parent, right?
The parent in this case, is going to
be the person that was returned here.
So I'm just gonna call this person.
So a better example would be,
let's actually put a name here.
Let's just say, Henry.
But I really want that to be capitalized,
so I'll just say return
person.name.toupperCase, or
yeah, let's do uppercase.
>> Scott Moss: Is it c,
I don't know we're gonna find out.
So I can do that, and that will hijack
the original name being returned,
then run this one and
then return the string uppercase,
assuming that's the right method.
So let's run that, there you go.
It's uppercase now.
>> Mark: How do you get type
inferences with resolvers?
>> Scott Moss: How you get
type inference with resolvers.
So, the way GraphQL works is because it's
not built with TypeScript TRPC where it's
like TypeScript talking to TypeScript, you
have to do some type of code generation.
So, basically, if you just go look up
GraphQL codGen, they have a tool for that.
It basically will look at
your schema like this and
output Typescript for
you to import into all of your files.
And then that way you get
the the nice syntax highlighting.
I'm not doing it here in this course
because I feel like it's it's very
TypeScript specific, and I don't want
people to have to know what TypeScript is
to get the best out of GraphQL.
But, yes, in production,
if you're using TypeScript and GraphQL,
you would use a CodeGen.
It's a command that you would run
every time you change your schema, or
you can have it watch and
it will output TypeScript files that
you can import anywhere in your app.
Whether it's in the resolvers,
whether it's on your client side,
wherever you wanna put them.
That's how you would do it.
So, yeah, it's a build step.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so yeah,
you can see here I'm hijacking the name,
I'm resolving that.
And because you gotta follow the order,
I'm running the people query first,
so the resolver for
people runs,
it returns an array of these objects.
But because I also have a resolver for
a person's name and this is a person,
now person runs, its parent is
the person that was returned and
I can override what the name
was by putting something here.
So I can make this be whatever I want.
So now you can resolve field levels as
well as object levels and query levels.
So it gets pretty powerful very quickly.
And, again, these functions can
do whatever the hell they want.
All right, so if I return the number here,
what do you think is gonna happen?
>> Scott Moss: All right, if I try to do
this, it just converts It to a string.
So in this case, it's gonna coerce
it to a string, because it's like,
this is supposed to be a string.
You return something that I can coerce,
I'll do that.
So it's never not gonna
be what the schema says.
>> Scott Moss: This can get pretty
buggy for things like timestamps,
where sometimes you thought you
were gonna get a date object,
but then you got a string,
and it gets really weird.
But this is why sometimes you do
specifically write field-level resolvers
for the most part.